[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Katie Paige is with us.
She is Colorado's Mutual UFO
Network's state director,
and she's a star
investigator for MUFON
and is the team lead and
administrator for MUFON's Mars
team.
Now, we're not talking
about the planet, are we?
>>KATIE PAIGE: No, we're not.
Mars actually was set
up before we had the CMS
and all our reports were
put online on the computer.
Everything was done the
old-fashioned way by paper,
and we had over 10,000
reports pre-CMS.
And we had a team of
redactors, about 15
of us that spent
three years taking out
all the private personal
information from all
these paper reports, and they're
all put into a database now.
So researchers and historians
can access that data
more easily, which will be
set to roll out hopefully
in the next couple of years.
>>NOORY: How long have you been
a state director for MUFON?
>>PAIGE: It's been
three years now.
Yeah, and I was assistant
state director before that
for the state of Colorado.
>>NOORY: How did you
get interested in UFOs?
[LAUGHTER]
>>PAIGE: Well, I started
out kind of interested
in paranormal things.
When I was a young girl,
I had many experiences
of high strangeness out
on a Colorado ranch,
and I had a lot of
unanswered questions
about what happened out
there all those years ago.
>>NOORY: Is that
in Elbert County?
>>PAIGE: It is an
Elbert County, Colorado,
in a small town called Kiowa.
And we were threatened
and warned never
to talk about what
happened out there,
and I never knew
anybody knew anything
about what we experienced out
there on this ranch property.
So I came in, I learned about
MUFON from a documentary
on television.
And I came in right as a
field investigator just
to see what I can find out
about this whole world of UFOs
and possible answers to what
happened all those years ago
out there on that
ranch property.
>>NOORY: Yeah, tell us
about this ranch and what
might have happened.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, so like I
said, my sister and my mom--
my mom dated a gentleman.
She worked for a large
airline, United Airlines
as a computer operator.
>>NOORY: Sure.
They're based out this way.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, yeah, out there
in the Denver Tech Center.
And she started
dating this gentleman,
and he and his family owned
this ranch out there in Kiowa.
And the minute they
moved on the property,
they started hearing
loud humming sounds
and bangs under the ground.
The property sat vacant
for at least 12 years
before they even moved in.
So there was always
rumors and speculation
about this property of orbs
flying on and off the property,
UFOs being spotted,
and things like that.
So the two younger
sons that lived there,
lived with us-- we lived
in Englewood, Colorado,
about an hour away.
So they would commute
back and forth
to go to a large school
district here in Colorado.
And so I spent a handful
of times on weekends there,
but every Sunday night, when
the boys would come back,
we would hear about
all the happenings.
The biggest phenomenon that
was occurring out there
at the time-- and this
is from 1975 to 1978.
Yes, that's a long
time ago, but we still
don't have answers to what
was happening out there.
But cattle mutilations were
at really high, high levels.
Linda Moulton Howe actually
got her start out there
as an investigative journalist.
>>NOORY: That's exactly right.
>>PAIGE: Researching
all these mutilations
of not just cow, but horse,
sheep, and even dogs.
>>NOORY: That's the ranch.
>>PAIGE: Yeah.
And it was, I found out later
through George Knapp and Colm
Kelleher's book, "Hunt for
the Skinwalker," that's
where I first learned
that anybody knew anything
about the ranch property.
I learned that Dr. Leo Sprinkle,
PhD, investigated that along
with Dr. John Derr,
PhD and Peter--
>>NOORY: You had a
lot of heavyweights
in the field of
ufology out that way.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, and
I was just stunned
to find out that
anybody knew anything
about this ranch property.
So the last 10 years, I've been
really researching and digging
for documents of what was really
going on there at the time.
>>NOORY: That is amazing.
>>PAIGE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It truly is.
>>NOORY: What did you uncover?
>>PAIGE: Fortunately for
me, Dr. Leo Sprinkle,
who was just a wonderful man
and a pioneer in the field for--
>>NOORY: God rest his soul.
>>PAIGE: Yes, yes,
we unfortunately
lost him this last year.
But he was an amazing
man, and he actually
has all his archives
there at the Heritage
Center in Laramie, Wyoming.
And for me, that's only a quick
two and a half hour drive.
So I went out there and got
all the original documents out
of that archives, and
what I found eye-opening
for me is that it was very
clear that the military was
very aware of what was
happening out there
on the ranch property.
There were notes about
NORAD being informed
of what was there, and even
a person from Camp Carson
was out there on
the ranch property.
So I know there was a
heavy military influence--
>>NOORY: Something
was happening.
>>PAIGE: Something
So as an investigator and
an experiencer out there,
the question's always been
for me, how much of it
was military, and how
much of it was actual UFO
paranormal experiences?
And that's sort of
the question I've
been trying to answer and
uncover all these years.
>>NOORY: That's pretty dramatic.
Did you ever find anything
on the ranch personally
that would convince you
this thing is being visited,
this place is visited?
>>PAIGE: Yeah, one of
the early memories I
have, my older sister and I,
it was like a typical Colorado
spring day.
And here in Colorado, we
get these wet, heavy snows,
but the sun will shine
and the sky will be blue.
If you live out here, you
know what I'm talking about.
>>NOORY: Hopefully you get
a lot of wet heavy snows
out here, right?
>>PAIGE: Yeah, right.
And we were out in front
of the ranch property
just flipping the
frisbee back and forth.
And we looked down, and
there was this large circle
on the ground, and it
was just completely dry,
and nothing grew in this circle.
And being an investigator
and researcher,
I'm like, well, could there
have been a missile silo there
or whatever looking
back, but that was--
>>NOORY: A perfect circle.
>>PAIGE: Perfect circle.
And what's interesting, when
I went back to the archives
of Dr. Sprinkle's--
Dr. Sprinkle gave me a
document that actually had--
it was 75 feet in diameter.
There were two of
these circles, snowless
circles on the property.
And in one of the
documents, it actually
said there were drops of blood
outside the circle, which
was kind of terrifying.
So that's one thing I remember,
and to have that actually
verified in the document
was like really neat
to see that because
that was a memory.
>>NOORY: Katie, did something
happened to you out that way?
I mean were you--
I have heard rumors that
you were threatened.
>>PAIGE: Yes.
>>NOORY: By whom and why?
>>PAIGE: Well, that's something
I always have questions about.
So one of the most
terrifying nights
we had out there, my sister
and I and the three boys--
I believe it was the
boys' mother's birthday.
So we were out there
over the weekend
celebrating her birthday.
All the adults, it
was after midnight.
They were in the front ranch
house playing board games,
and we were-- the kids were all
hanging out in the boys' room.
And it was late,
early in the morning,
and all of a sudden that
humming noise started up,
and everybody was
like freaking out.
There's that humming noise.
Because any time that
humming noise happened,
strange things began to happen.
Well, at that moment, all the
power in the house went out.
So it's dark.
We're all scared.
And then at that moment
we had this booming voice.
It sounded like
it was coming out
of every orifice in the
house, but it was basically
this warning.
We have allowed you to remain.
Your friends will be instructed
to remain silent concerning us.
Don't take action that we
will regret and duh, duh, duh.
So I had memories of
that, and my sister also
has memories of that
most terrifying night.
And that, exactly what it said,
was in that briefing document
as well.
Another confirmation
out of the report, which
was really, really neat to see.
>>NOORY: What was the box?
>>PAIGE: Yeah, so there
was this box that was
reported to be seen out there.
And again, the adults saw
that box several times.
I witnessed the box one time.
It was during the day.
They had a pickup
truck and hound dogs,
and we were driving--
there's a bank of ponderosa
pines behind the ranch house.
And we were in the pickup
truck driving around the back
in the ponderosa pines.
And we get out of the truck,
and that humming noise-- well,
it sounded more like
bees started up.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>PAIGE: And all of
a sudden, the adult--
his name was John-- is
like, get back in the truck!
Get back in the truck!
And in the trees, you
could see this box.
OK, it's about two feet by a
foot, and it had lights on it,
and it made this strange sound.
>>NOORY: Like
somebody put it there?
>>PAIGE: I don't know
who put it there,
but when we jumped
back in the truck,
I looked back into the
trees, and that box was gone.
And that's what it was
reported, this box would--
>>NOORY: That's bizarre.
>>PAIGE: Be there
and not be there.
It's so bizarre, I didn't
even talk about it for years
because it's just so strange.
And it wasn't until I started
hearing other high strangeness
locations, like Skinwalker
Ranch and Trey Hudson's ranch
in the South, the
South Skinwalker
Ranch that also have experiences
with these strange boxes.
So--
>>NOORY: Ken Cherry is a former
Texas MUFON state director.
He talked on Gaia's "Open Minds"
series about his first UFO
experience.
>>KEN CHERRY: When
I was about seven,
I was alone on our
ranch at the time
and came through into a
clearing and looked up,
and there was this silvery
object going across the horizon
just slowly.
And of course, at that
age, I had no comprehension
of the types of vehicles
or aircraft or anything
of that nature.
Next thing I know, there
was this craft coming down
at a very rapid speed
toward the silvery object.
And I don't know if it
was the glint of the sun
or if there was some
interaction between the object
and the craft, but there was
like a lightning or something.
Next thing I knew, the pilot
of the plane bailed out,
and the craft started
billowing smoke
and crashed into the ground.
The silvery object took off.
Back in those days, I mean,
kids were to be heard--
I mean to be seen and not
heard, so I really never
had a chance to discuss
it with anybody.
But whenever my parents would
get together with neighbors,
all they could talk about
was rescuing this pilot
from the trees.
And I later realized that
this was one of our early jets
that had--
it tried to attack or
force down a flying saucer.
And this would have been
about 1952, when we still
had this order standing--
force them down or
shoot them down.
Of course, it never
really worked.
At one point, I think, a
General Chidlaw said, we
were losing an aircraft a
day around the world trying
to force down saucers.
So they finally gave up on
that, and the saucers apparently
were just in defensive mode.
>>NOORY: There was a major UFO
flap in this country in 1952,
a UFO spotted over the Capitol.
It's an incredible story.
But he's pretty
convincing, isn't he?
>>PAIGE: Yeah, oh my gosh.
That actually goes right along
with in that briefing document
that I acquired from
John Schuessler,
it talks about-- and also
in Dr. Leo Sprinkle's files
that there were two A-7D
interceptors in pursuit
of a UFO that actually crashed
there in Elbert County that
occurred on November 11, 1975.
So I actually ran
into Richard Doty
at one of the
conferences in Laughlin,
and I asked him a
couple of questions.
I asked him, A, if he was
aware of that ranch property.
In the A.P.R.O folklore, it was
known as the Clearview Ranch
or the Rocky Mountain Ranch.
And the location was
unknown because the people
of the town and the sheriff,
George Yarnell, and Bill Waugh,
they did not want any publicity
or to bring the masses down
around the town.
But he said that, yes, he was
aware of that property, which
was really interesting to me.
And number two, that if I wanted
any information on those two
A-7Ds that crashed out there
to go ahead and send a FOIA
request into Kirkland
Air Force Base--
>>NOORY: Did you get any info?
>>PAIGE: I did.
I got a nice big thick envelope.
And of course, all that
where it gets really
juicy and interesting, big--
>>NOORY: Blacked out.
>>PAIGE: Big, blacked out boxes.
But what's fascinating
to me was supposedly,
it was an instructor
and a student pilot
out of Buckley Air Force
Base, which now, of course,
is Space Force.
But this was at night.
I learned that they had 255
live rounds of ammunition
on board, which I thought was
interesting with the student
pilot flying over residential
farms and ranches.
>>NOORY: It's kind of dangerous.
>>PAIGE: I think that's
kind of dangerous.
And one of the causes
that were listed
that the instructor
misidentified
another craft as the student's,
and the student turned
off his beacon light and
instead of turning it on
and hit his tail and
they both went down.
They both ejected, and
they both survived.
But I found it interesting
that they never
identified, either with
the radio transcripts
or the pilot never identified
what that other craft was.
And then just recently,
I was at David Marler's.
He has a very large historian,
all sorts of documents
and newspaper articles.
And I ran across an article
around that same time
out of Canada that
the Air Force actually
did scramble a couple of
jets in pursuit of a UFO.
So we know they've done it--
>>NOORY: They were
chasing something.
>>PAIGE: They were
chasing something,
and I believe they were
chasing something, yeah.
>>NOORY: We've got some
sketches from the Elbert Ranch
that I want you to take
a look at and react.
Our first is a
so-called alien drawing
of what might have
been out there.
What do you think of that?
>>PAIGE: Well, again, the
image there close to you,
George, that was the
actual sketch that
was in the files at Dr.
Sprinkle's of the alien
being-- one of the types
that were seen out there
on the ranch.
And this sketch there on
the left, closest to me,
is a sketch from a gentleman
named Sean Bartok, who
wrote a book called
"Flashbacks,"
and he had a property that
was just 14 miles away
from where the ranch sat,
and this was the being
they saw around that time.
>>NOORY: He was an eyewitness
>>PAIGE: Right, and I
don't know about you,
but I find them to
look eerily similar.
And those tubes in the neck
there, he said actually
would expand out.
Those are actually
tubes in his neck.
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
>>PAIGE: So out there
on the ranch property,
they said they had these
type of beings seen out there
and a Nordic type of being.
And they said, they
appeared to be in conflict
with one another.
>>NOORY: All right.
Let's look at the next picture
here and see what this is.
>>PAIGE: Again, that's--
>>NOORY: That's a different
perspective of what we saw.
Look at the arms.
>>PAIGE: Right.
Yeah, and through the years--
>>NOORY: It looks robotic.
>>PAIGE: Well, exactly.
I was actually at the grocery
store standing in line,
and there was a copy
of "Popular Mechanics,"
and it was a big
article about AI.
And they had these tubey
things and I thought--
>>NOORY: Just like him.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, I really
think this could possibly
be some sort of AI.
And I also through
the years think
that whatever those boxes may
be that were seen at the ranch
property are most likely
connected to these beings here.
>>NOORY: What is that
screen in front of him?
>>PAIGE: I don't know.
In the document, it
actually it describes it
as more of a
three-dimensional type thing.
It almost looks flat
in that photograph,
but the arms and legs are
almost spider, you know--
>>NOORY: It looks
like a praying mantis.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, almost.
So I don't know if that's
a shield or what that is.
And there was
supposedly some sort
of clear apparatus
over the head.
>>NOORY: All right.
Let's look at our
next picture here.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, again,
this is-- yeah,
those are those images
from that issue.
And when I saw that, it just
kind of clicked in my brain
that possibly that could
be an AI maybe connected
to the boxes.
And then the image
there on the far right
is that Sean Bartok's
drawing of those tubes that
are in the neck coming out.
So I think it's very
unusual because it's not
like anything you really
see in movies or the--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>PAIGE: Stereotypical Greys
that you often hear about.
They're very unique looking.
Another phenomenon--
>>NOORY: This
looks like Bigfoot.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, and when
I was a young girl--
so during the ranch time,
I'm 9 to 12 years old
during these years.
And they called
them white fuzzies
because they had like
gray hair, but they
had these Bigfoot
Sasquatch creatures that
were seen at the ranch
property, and that was a sketch
of what was drawn there.
And interestingly enough,
years later, at a conference,
I meet Bob Salas,
and he was talking
about very similar experiences
happening up in Montana
and happened to
have an airman that
passed a polygraph test
seeing these creatures,
and they are almost
identical to these as well.
>>NOORY: How prevalent, Katie,
was the military presence out
at this ranch?
>>PAIGE: I think it
was very prevalent.
I mean, one of the big things
that happened out there a lot
were these mysterious unmarked
helicopters flying off and off
of our properties.
And it made me wonder,
like were the military
responsible for a lot of
these cattle mutilations?
Were they taking
the cattle and why?
There's missile silos out
there, the Titan missile silos.
Were they testing the water?
Were they testing the soil?
I don't know.
But as you can see,
that Elbert Ranch
is that big red star there, and
we had the Air Force Academy.
And back in the
mid to late '70s,
their property ran clear up
close to the ranch property.
And then we have Cheyenne
Mountain, of course, NORAD,
Fort Carson, Schrievner,
Peterson Air Force base,
and there's also Butte,
which had a huge collection
of the helicopters out there.
And that's, like I said,
it was always my question.
Chicken or the egg?
Were they out there
causing the activity,
or were they out there
investigating or both?
>>NOORY: Or both.
>>PAIGE: Or both.
Military bases seem
to be associated
with a lot of UFO sightings.
What is your thoughts on that?
>>PAIGE: Oh, absolutely.
I mean, we know World War
II and the Foo Fighters
and all the activities and
shutting down and even turning
on our nuclear weapons.
So I believe that whoever may
be out there watching humanity
is keeping a close eye on
our military and our weapons.
>>NOORY: A very close eye.
Dulce in New Mexico
seems to have
a lot of episodes happening.
On Gaia's "Deep
Space" program, they
talk about the military
base and the sky
filled with UFO activity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: There have been
whispers since the early 1960s
that the US government and
military have been involved
with discovering caverns
hidden under the desert
of the Southwest.
They've also been active in
creating underground cities
and bases.
One of the more
dramatic scenarios
involves an underground base
near the town of Dulce, New
Mexico.
The first base came
into prominence
when UFO researcher,
Paul Bennewitz,
accidentally discovered it,
but who was Paul Bennewitz?
>>RICHARD DOLAN:
So Paul Bennewitz
was a US private scientist
who had a small defense
company of his own, and he
did contract work for the US
military in the 1970s.
Paul Bennewitz lived right
across from Kirtland Air Force
base in New Mexico and in
the mid to late 1970s started
to detect--
he had very sophisticated
instrumentation
at his home to detect
what he believed
were UFOs over
Kirtland and Manzano
as well, the weapons
storage area nearby there.
Detect different types
of communications
signals that he believed
he had translated.
In fact, I have
translations of those.
And so he became
convinced that there
was serious UFO and basically
extraterrestrial activity
over Kirtland and Manzano
the weapons storage facility,
where there was a ton of nukes.
>>NICK REDFERN: And Bennewitz
had an interest in UFOs,
and this was expanded
upon by the fact
that he started to see in
the skies over Kirtland
these strange objects performing
all sorts of weird maneuvers.
At the same time, the equipment
that the Thunder company
was picking up these
unusual, unexplained noises,
which seem to be some
sort of coded message.
And Bennewitz came
to believe that what
he was seeing in the sky
were definitive UFOs,
extraterrestrial spacecraft,
and that these coded messages he
was picking up were
covert messages
from extraterrestrial craft to
other extraterrestrial craft,
and he began to dig into
this issue very, very deeply.
>>GREG BISHOP: Paul Bennewitz
lived in Albuquerque
next to Kirtland Air
Force base, which
was and is a center of
a lot of secret weapons
and weapons systems
and aircraft research.
And so he was
uniquely positioned
to see what was
going on in the base
because he lived on a hill--
his house is still there--
overlooking the entire base.
And he could see things,
especially late at night
when they were doing
testing, and they
didn't figure anybody
was up at that hour,
but Paul Bennewitz was.
>>NOORY: Katie, absolutely
riveting, isn't it?
>>PAIGE: It is,
and it really makes
me wonder about these homes and
bangs and sounds underground.
And in fact, I would
pull up Google Earth
and look where Stapleton
Airport and DIA and all
the military bases
are, could they
have been digging and
tunneling under there?
I don't know.
It's a question I've always
had, and I wonder about that.
>>NOORY: How much does the
government know and they just
aren't telling us?
>>PAIGE: A lot, and I
also find it fascinating
that we had the Navy
come out and be pretty
upfront in public,
maybe not their choice,
but it happened that way.
>>NOORY: With the
Tic Tac videos.
>>PAIGE: With the Tic Tac--
yeah.
But the Air Force has remained
pretty quiet and hush-hush
about it.
And I believe personally that
it has to do with liability.
I've come to believe through
my 10 years of research
that the Air Force was out there
maybe doing some black access
projects.
And if they did have their hand
in these mutilations and what,
they have a lot
to cover up still,
and they don't want
to answer for them.
>>NOORY: Like MK-ULTRA?
>>PAIGE: Yeah, there's
actually a note in Dr.
Leo Sprinkle's files
that there was a Warren--
and his last name
was redacted out--
was at the ranch property.
And it says, something
took over his mind, made
him walk towards the
woods, would release him,
and he would run back
to the ranch house,
and that this did this
to him five times.
That speaks to me as some
sort of mind control.
So who knows, there could
have been some black access
projects happening out there.
Who knows what they
were experimenting with?
>>NOORY: How could they
be related to UFO cases?
>>PAIGE: Well, I think if there
were two beings seen out there
on that ranch property, if ETs
had their hand in mutilating
cattle, if--
who knows.
The military obviously
would be interested
in what they're
doing there and why.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>PAIGE: So I think they were
out there looking for answers.
>>NOORY: There were a couple
interceptors pursuing a UFO.
Tell us about what
you know about that.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, I mentioned
that a little earlier
that I FOIA'ed the
Kirkland Air Force Base
and got the documents on that.
And one thing I can tell
you, I flew to Florida
and did an interview
with the undersheriff
there in Elbert County
and Kiowa at the time
was a gentleman
named Bill Waugh.
And in fact, he
does an appearance
in Linda Moulton Howe's
movie, "A Strange Harvest."
And so I went and interviewed--
>>NOORY: One of her classics.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, his
son and his widow,
and him and George Yarnell,
they were up in small planes
looking for craft and looking
for these mutilators that
were mutilating the cattle.
And something that
a lot of people
don't really realize
and understand,
people were very frightened.
These were happening
almost daily.
So people had loaded
shotguns by their door.
They had--
>>NOORY: They were that scared.
>>PAIGE: They were that scared.
It was a really eerie time.
And there was a $10,000
reward to find the people that
were mutilating these cattle.
And so, people were actively
looking up in airplanes.
The Colorado Bureau
of Investigations
was very aware of
what was happening,
as was Stapleton Airport, so
they were watching the skies.
And, in fact, one of the
documents that I uncovered also
was that the Elbert
County sheriffs,
they had a no-fly zone over
the county for a little while
as they were trying
to find out who
were mutilating these cattle.
And at the time, one of the
theories was possibly cults.
But I think we can
safely rule that out.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Is
Bill Wash still alive?
>>PAIGE: No, he's not.
Unfortunately, we lost him.
Yeah, but I'll tell you, his
widow, Jean, and his son,
they certainly have
a lot of memories
and a lot of really
good information.
So I was very fortunate to be
able to interview them as well
as other people in the town.
Because really, what I thought
was isolated to the one ranch
location-- and the ranch sits at
the highest elevation of Elbert
County or in Kiowa--
but this affected, I have
a list of over 250 people
that had experienced things.
So this just wasn't isolated
to the ranch property.
It was the whole
county, the whole town.
>>NOORY: Is it possible
that some of these sightings
may have been originating
from something underground,
like an ET base?
>>PAIGE: I think that's
altogether, possible.
I really do because of just,
all the strange sounds and bangs
and things coming
from underground.
I mean, who knows?
Then, there's always
the possibility
of inter-dimensional portal
type things, as well.
>>NOORY: Well, let's talk
about the possibility
of cattle mutilations, what
else may be going on there.
Here's another clip from
Gaia's "Deep Space."
[THEME MUSIC]
>>NICK REDFERN: In
Northern New Mexico,
animals are being found drained
of blood with organs removed.
Black helicopters were seen
flying around the area,
strange lights, UFOs.
And it all revolved
around this huge mesa
which overlooks Dulce,
called the Archuleta Mesa.
One of the intriguing
theories is
that there exists within
and below this huge mesa,
some sort of fortified
alien installation.
An extraterrestrial
base, if you like.
And certainly since
the 1970s right
through to the present
day, a lot of research
has been done into
the Dulce area
to try and answer that
question, are extraterrestrials
living under New Mexico
in the Dulce area?
>>ANTHONY SANCHEZ:
Yeah, back in the 1950s,
in Farmington,
there was an armada
of UFOs seen going
from Farmington
eastward towards Dulce.
Terrified everybody.
Made the newspapers
and then nothing.
>>REDFERN: In today's
world, a lot of nations
do have underground
installations.
And it makes a great deal of
sense because if, God forbid,
there was ever a
nuclear war, then
if some sort of containment
of our government
is going to take place
and continuation,
then the best place to be in a
Third World War is underground.
It makes sense.
So a lot of these
installations were
built during the
height of the Cold War
to protect the government while,
unfortunately, the rest of us
are left upstairs to fry.
And one of the theories is that
some of these installations
may have been built
for potentials
in the event of a
Third World War,
but over time, they may
have been reorganized
and transformed
to where you have
these alien-human
interactions going on.
In other words, very
much like Dulce.
>>SANCHEZ: We had
people coming forward
finally sharing UFO
sightings, engagements
with cryptids, creatures
they could not explain.
For the first time on
record, multiple families
independent of one another
said, they hear traffic
beneath their town.
Traffic traffic like
cars and trucks.
They hear, like, what
sounds like a train system.
And we all know about
the Maglev tunnel system
that supposedly exists there.
There is one that exists within
the Los Alamos infrastructure.
There's an underground
Maglev system.
>>NOORY: This
underground system,
Katie, could it be
ours or the ETs?
>>PAIGE: I think,
most likely, it
would be ours, if that exists.
I think with NORAD
base being right there,
I mean, the likelihood
is probably,
pretty high that some tunnel--
>>NOORY: Huge.
>>PAIGE: --system--
yeah-- they go somewhere.
Now, did they go
through Elbert County?
I don't know, but, I
mean, that is certainly,
a question that I have.
>>NOORY: Are you still hearing
things about underground bases
and reports like that?
>>PAIGE: From time
to time, you'll
hear in the UFO
circles, people talking
about these underground bases.
Certainly, people will ask
me, is the activity still high
there in Elbert County?
And do we still get
reports from ranchers
of mutilations and that?
And the answer is, a
lot of these ranchers
don't report these
things to MUFON.
It's been going on for so long.
They know nothing happens.
They don't want the stigma.
So yes, mutilations
are still occurring,
just not to the
degree they were then.
And what's interesting,
we just recently
made contact with the
people living there now,
and they are still seeing
some activity from time
to time of different
orbs and lights
flying on and off the
property and a sensation.
And this is really
interesting to me
personally because one
thing that I remember
more than anything else is
that sense of being watched
or monitored, and they're still
feeling that there, as well.
>>NOORY: Well, it's
kind of interesting.
In the past, Katie, we used to
have reports of scorched Earth.
You mentioned that
circle, for example.
We would see scorches of what
looked like a burned-out UFO
that had landed.
We don't get those anymore.
How come?
>>PAIGE: Yeah, not so much.
I don't know.
That's something that fascinated
me going through the MUFON
archives and doing the research
on the history that I have.
It seems as though,
the phenomenon
tends to shift and change
through the decades.
And I don't know if that
is popular culture or if--
it seemed like we had more
landings and more actual
sightings of beings
in the '70s--
>>NOORY: And more
abductions, too.
>>PAIGE: --and more
abductions in the '70s.
I mean, 1975, we
have Travis Walton.
>>NOORY: Great story.
>>PAIGE: Yeah.
Yeah, so I don't know if,
maybe, during that decade,
they were really gathering
evidence and ground soils
and cattle and they were landing
more and now they have that
and they don't need
to do that anymore
so now they're doing flybys
and coming in and out
of our oceans.
I don't know what
the answer to that
is, but you can definitely
see these changes of the--
>>NOORY: And they've
been dramatic, too.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, they
really have been.
>>NOORY: And even back to
the mutilations for a moment,
they've slowed down a lot.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, they have.
And I know that
there's a lot of people
believe that that's
kind of a closed case,
it was all done by
the military, and it
had no ET connection to it.
But the interviews
that I've done,
I can't say that I believe that.
And one in particular, if
you go to the Elbert County
Museum, one of
the families there
that basically, pioneered-- one
of the early pioneers of Kiowa
and Elbert County, I interviewed
one of the daughters--
the granddaughters.
And she right out
of high school moved
to the town of Ramah, Colorado,
which is really close to Kiowa,
and they lived on several acres
miles off the county road.
And her husband was on horseback
checking the cows for calves.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>PAIGE: Yeah, and he came
across a dead calf and it had
a--
>>NOORY: Perfect incisions.
>>PAIGE: --perfect
incision of a square--
cut, cut, cut, cut.
The top of the fur was removed,
but the skin was still there.
>>NOORY: And these
are laser incisions.
>>PAIGE: Yes, well,
this was, like, cut.
So he gets on the horse, goes
back and, gets my witness,
and they come back 20, 25
minutes later in the pickup
truck.
When they got back, that
calf was completely mutilated
with precision laser
cut, just like you hear.
>>NOORY: No blood.
>>PAIGE: Blood drained,
organs removed.
And there were no tracks
other than the horse
what the horse had made.
And they were miles
off the county road.
No helicopter sounds.
They said they felt watched.
They felt, it was really
eerie and almost evil.
And it really scared them.
And to me, that can't be
the military doing that.
>>NOORY: In the movie "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind,"
they portrayed those
kinds of scenes
as government-run doing
tests, like chemical
tests, biological
tests, on these cattle.
And of course,
they had to dissect
them to look at the organs
to see what kind of effect
it would be because it
would affect us, too.
>>PAIGE: Right.
>>NOORY: I'm not
sure that's the case.
>>PAIGE: No, not in all of them.
Maybe, a large percentage
possibly that's true.
They're taking the tongue,
the eye, the sensitive organs
looking for mad cow disease
or different genetic testing--
>>NOORY: How could this
biological affect this animal?
>>PAIGE: Yeah, exactly.
But certainly,
through the interviews
that I've personally done, it
doesn't answer for all of them.
So I do think there's, maybe,
an ET connection to some
of the mutilations.
>>NOORY: What is, what is
called, the hitchhiker effect?
What is that?
>>PAIGE: Well, interestingly,
at the very beginning,
I told you I kind of started my
journey on the paranormal side
because I experienced
some very unusual things.
And I compartmentalized them
and didn't really connect it
to the activity on
the ranch until I
read the book "Skin Walkers at
the Pentagon" just recently.
And they talked about
the hitchhiker effect.
And back at my ranch
house, the night
that I spoke about where we
had that loud disembodied voice
threatening us and that.
When I got home to my
house that evening,
I walked in the front door
and collapsed in the doorway,
and I was paralyzed
for a short while.
>>NOORY: You're kidding me?
>>PAIGE: And I couldn't speak.
No.
And in fact, that night
was the first night
I had my full-blown
major migraine headache.
And I suffered migraine
headaches, like, weekly
after that event on the ranch.
>>NOORY: Was somebody
bombarding you?
>>PAIGE: I don't know,
but at that time, also,
I never slept it alone.
I always slept
with my big sister.
We put the bed against
the wall because I
was seeing these large
shadow-type figures in my room.
They would be by the closet,
peeking around the door,
next to my bed.
I was terrified all the time.
I was always afraid
of being taken.
I walked to school--
my elementary school--
and I was so afraid
that if a car, and especially
motorcycles was really bad,
I would pretend as if
I lived at that house
because I always
thought somebody was
going to take me or something.
So I was terrified
all those years,
but I never really connected
the paranormal things that
happened-- the shadow figures
and I had an experience with
this big blue orb--
I never connected it to the
ranch until just recently,
when other people said
when they spend time
at these high
strangeness locations,
these phenomena
tend to follow them.
And that's certainly true in
my case throughout my life.
>>NOORY: It might
not be UFO-related.
It could be something
entirely different.
>>PAIGE: Maybe.
I'm not sure what it is,
but it certainly has--
some things connected
to me in that sense
because it continues
to this day.
>>NOORY: Do you think there's
a connection between UFOs
and what's been happening
to you and other people?
>>PAIGE: I do.
I've just talked
to so many people
that have experienced the same
thing, very similar things.
So I do believe
that it's connected.
>>NOORY: Do you think it's all
based on this ranch or is it
just--
>>PAIGE: No, I
think there's areas,
not only across
the United States,
but around the world that
have these high degree
of high strangeness
activity that happens.
And in fact, in the Mars
program and in the data,
I found another location that
had very similar experiences
as the ranch in
Colorado called--
it was called the
Ohiopyle Creature
Case in Ohiopyle, Pennsylvania.
Very similar things
around that same time.
And so what I started
to do is I was looking
at the magnetic map of the
United States to see what,
maybe, these locations
had in common--
Blind Frog and Skinwalker
and Marley Woods
and all these locations.
And one thing they
all have in common
is they ping the
charts of being very,
very highly magnetic areas.
So I found that
really interesting.
So I don't know if there's
something that's attracting ETs
to these really
high magnetic areas
or if it allows us to
interact with the phenomenon
something in our brain.
I don't know.
>>NOORY: What's going
on at the ranch now?
>>PAIGE: Well, the
family has said
the activity is much less than
it was back in those years,
but they are still experiencing
some things from time to time.
And as fate would have it--
>>NOORY: Are they scared?
>>PAIGE: I don't know
if they're scared.
I think they feel
watched, and I think
they have an uneasiness
or uneasy feeling,
but it's not to the degree
it was back at the day.
It's not like the whole
town is on edge anymore,
like it used to be.
>>NOORY: Do they feel violated?
>>PAIGE: I'm not
sure about that.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Does the government continue
to come out to the ranch?
>>PAIGE: Not to my knowledge.
>>NOORY: Not anymore.
>>PAIGE: No, but I do know that
they're-- like, for example,
when I sent in my FOIA request,
I did get a personal phone call
from the United
States Air Force.
And they basically told me, if
you want any more information
about that area to
contact them directly.
>>NOORY: I argue a lot
with Stephen Bassett--
you know Stephen-- who talks
about disclosure all the time.
He says, it's coming.
It's coming.
He's been saying
that for 15 years.
And I keep telling
him, Steve, it's
not coming unless
whistleblowers come forward--
>>PAIGE: That's true.
>>NOORY: --and really
get the information out.
What's your guess?
>>PAIGE: I agree
with you on that one.
I just-- I think there's
too much liability and too
many secrets for all these years
that they're just not going
to come and spill
it all one day.
It's going to come out
slowly through time
until a lot of these--
and I don't want to
call them victims--
but a lot of these people
that were traumatized
or part of these programs
are long dead and gone,
then maybe it'll come out.
>>NOORY: They seem
to be concerned
that because of holding
back information on us
for so many years that
to come forward and say
this has been happening, they
don't know how to say it.
They don't know what to do.
>>PAIGE: Right.
I think they don't
have answers just
like we don't have answers.
And they don't want
the general public
to know how vulnerable
we might be.
I mean, if they can't control
what ETs are out there doing
or who's flying around in our
airspace, that's kind of scary.
>>NOORY: Erica Lukes is the
MUFON State Director in Utah,
and she talked about the
possibility of full disclosure.
We need a great sighting.
We need a great national
sighting of something landing
to get people excited
again about this.
>>LUKES: Right.
Well, we have--
I mean, look at the
Phoenix Lights case.
>>NOORY: 1997
>>LUKES: --in '97.
That was such a great
case and yet, still you
have people arguing about it.
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah,
that they were flares.
That they were Chinese lanterns.
>>LUKES: Right.
>>NOORY: That there
were military jets.
Come on.
>>LUKES: I know.
>>NOORY: You get all these
people seeing an object, which
was about a mile long.
>>LUKES: It's
interesting, and you
know, because you deal with so
many peoples' belief systems.
And we have to try to
separate this from a belief
to a factual thing.
Here is the data.
You cannot look at all of the
government documents that have
been obtained, you can't look at
all of the scientific evidence
in places,
like Hessdalen, over in Norway,
30 years of data over there.
They've identified
four different types
of light phenomena that
responds intelligently.
So you can't argue about that.
And we need to get
some good people out
there in front that are
professional that can lead
the way and say, look at this.
This isn't a belief.
It's a fact.
>>NOORY: Katie, what
continues to drive you?
>>PAIGE: I want answers.
I love researching.
My happy place is
to go into archives.
I really just want
to get to the bottom
of what was happening there.
And that drives me every day.
It keeps me going
to keep digging.
And I have just run across so
many really interesting people
along the way that have just
little pieces of information,
and it's sort of like
this just big puzzle word.
I'm just trying to put
all those pieces in place
and get to the bottom of
really, what was happening.
>>NOORY: Well, you know
curiosity killed the cat.
>>PAIGE: I know.
>>NOORY: Be careful.
That's so true.
>>NOORY: Where can people
find your work and track you?
>>PAIGE: Yes, they can
go to katiepaige.net.
>>NOORY: And spell Paige for us
>>PAIGE: P-A-I-G-E.net.
And that's my website, and
they can contact me there.
>>NOORY: Are you going to
continue researching this
and stay a state director
for MUFON, for example?
>>PAIGE: I am.
I am.
And I have another love, too,
which was a Roswell-Denver body
connection so I've
been investigating
this for three years.
And COVID kind of slowed
that down a little bit,
but I'm working on
that case, as well.
There was a Brigadier
General Arthur Exon
who rumored that one
of the Roswell bodies
ended up in a mortuary
outfit in Denver.
And I've been on that
case for a while, as well.
And I've uncovered from some
interesting things on that.
>>NOORY: What does your gut
tell you about all of this?
>>PAIGE: My gut-- where
I stand right now,
I believe that it's--
I think we're all looking
for simple answers,
that Occam's razor, and
it's not a simple answer.
I think we had military
in there doing things
and we had unusual unknown
phenomenon happening
at the same time, and
it just gets convoluted.
So the simple answers
that we're looking
for, we're not going to find.
I just think it's
way more complex.
And even getting down to the
what reality actually is.
I mean, we can go deep,
deep into that, But--
>>NOORY: Katie, why
aren't we helped
by the occupants of these UFOs?
>>PAIGE: Well, I ask
that almost every day.
Like, come on, we need
some help already.
I don't know if there were to
some agreements put in place.
Maybe, there's a universal
you can't interact.
There has to be something like
that because you would think,
one of the--
I mean, there has to
be multiple beings that
are interacting, possibly.
You would think some of them
would want to just come up
and say, hello, we're here.
I don't know why.
That's a really good question.
>>NOORY: Well, keep
doing what you're doing.
>>PAIGE: Thank you.
>>NOORY: And thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>PAIGE: Well, thank
you for having me.
It was a pleasure being here.
>>NOORY: UFOs, will we
ever get full disclosure
from the government?
I'm not sure, and experts like
Katie Paige, they're not sure,
but we're not going
to stop trying.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]